---
layout: project
title: Baffle for Extremely Large Telescope
description: Max Planck Institute for Extraterrestrial Physics
Core Skills: [NX, Siemens Optical Model]
image: /assets/images/baffle.png
---

Introduction: I interned as a Mechanical Engineer at the Max Planck Institute for Extraterrestrial
Physics (MPE), working on MICADO, the camera for the Extremely Large Telescope in Chile. MICADO will take high resolution images of the the Universe at near-infrared wavelengths. MICADO instruments operate in a cryogenic assembly (82 K) and under vacuum condition. 


Baffle design and manufacture: I designed the baffle for MICADO using NX CAD and Siemens optical model. The goal of the baffle is to direct light into the cryostat while blocking stray and scattered light beams, which are the biggest source of noise in the camera. Key design considerations I had to make included ensuring the CTE (coefficient of thermal expansion) remained consistent with other camera components and calculating the vane apertures and positions for the baffle in the cold environment and scaling them up to room temperature. I created technical drawings for my design. I collaborated with optical and manufacturing engineers to ensure my design fit all constraints and requirements for the telescope. My design went through multiple iterations and my final baffle design is now being used for MICADO. I also constructed a cryoshat shutter for MICADO and helped level the MICADO rotator using a laser tracker. 



