---
layout: project
title: APOLLO Avionics Bay
description: Icarus
technologies: [Catia, 3D Printing, Laser cutting, Drill Press, Foam cutting, QGroundControl, Python]
image: /assets/images/balloon.png
image: /assets/images/plane.png
image: /assets/images/apollo r.png


---

Introduction: Icarus's mission is to re-establish and maintain dominance in the stratosphere. I designed, manufactured, integrated, and tested hardware for long-endurance solar-powered stratospheric drones. 

Objectives and Scope: Our primary design goals were to ensure reliability, cost-effectiveness, and ease of manufacturability to enable rapid prototyping. Key considerations included center of gravity, thermal performance, and mass optimization.

Projects: I worked on the mechanical design and testing for Icarus's avionics systems. I designed, retrofitted, and integrated five main iterations of mechanical mounts to accommodate various avionics configurations and testing objectives. These mounts supported the flight computer, radio, telemetry antennas, GPS, and payload components. I also designed the avionics bay for APOLLO R, Icarus’s newest long-endurance, solar-powered stratospheric drone. In addition, I co-designed a proprietary glider release mechanism, advancing it from proof of concept to a patent. This mechanism enables effective deployment of drones from high-altitude balloons at target altitudes.

Testing: I conducted system integration and validation through 15+ flight tests and two successful demonstrations with DoD partners. 



